why build stuff that is already in the browser? NProgress, Link etc.

GraphQL is a spec lang agnostic spec

client can be anything (ex. arduino)

graphql can replace REST or sit in front of REST to proxy data.

Can implement in any lang.
BE: prisma, graphql yoga
FE: Apollo

graphql single endpoint, send query, get data
it is a typed language

graphql datamodel = database schema, duplication?
relationship? umm like a RDMS?

query/mutation

graphql does not have filtering, sorting?!!

graphql itself does not fetch, filter and sort data
just a way to describe what you want.

servers implement RESOLVERS , they answer how and where get the data from..That's where you handle filtering sorting etc.

just a standard to request specific data.

graphql syntax: learning another data definition language..

graphql is db agnostic

prisma exposes datetime fields (lastcreated, lastupdated) => tied to prisma implementation now.
createAt: DateTime! #NOT A STANDARD TYPE in GraphQL, exposed by Prisma. If you don't use Prisma, create your own DateTime type WTF...



directives in graphql: confusion for angular devs, implemented by your graphql server(prisma). => tied more to prisma.

prisma deploy: database migrations, dacpac, oSetupSQL

prisma just generated CRUD query no custom server side logic, charge cc, send email, authentication, authorization...umm business layer?

react uses apollo client to query GraphQL yoga endpoint, on the server GraphQL yoga is going to connect to prisma db and pull data back.
prisma binding allows to write queries just like we were doing in the graphql playground

Anytime you change datamodel, you have to deploy to prisma, update db and pull down new prisma schema

datamodel.graphql or datamodel.prisma => for prisma backend
prisma.graphql => gets generated BASED ON datamodel.graphql ^ (has everything)
schema.graphql => public facing API

Video: 16 @ 8:30, error undefined...refresh the page? Sometime the hot reload gets into weird state and is not able to recover. If you get an error that you don't understand just refresh the page. facepalm
